!" and chasedthem about until a part ran off, and the rest he killed and threwinto the pond. As soon as he returned he blew up the sparks of hisfire again and warmed himself, and while he sat his eyes began tofeel very heavy and he wished to go to sleep. So looking around hesaw a great bed in one corner, in which he lay down; but no soonerhad he closed his eyes, than the bed began to move of itself andtravelled all round the castle. "Just so," said he, "only betterstill"; whereupon the bed galloped away as if six horses pulled itup and down steps and stairs, until at last, all at once, itoverset, bottom upward, and lay upon him like a mountain; but up hegot, threw pillows and mattresses into the air, and saying, "Now hewho wishes may travel," laid himself down by the fire and slepttill day broke. In the morning the King came, and, seeing the youthlying on the ground, he thought that the spectres had killed him,and that he was dead; so he said, "It is a great misfortune thatthe finest men are thus killed"; but the youth, hearing this,sprang up, saying, "It is not come to that with me yet!" The Kingwas much astonished, but very glad, and asked him how he had fared."Very well," replied he; "as one night has passed, so also may theother two." Soon after he met his landlord, who opened his eyeswhen he saw him. "I never thought to see you alive again," said he;"have you learnt now what shivering means?" "No," said he; "it isall of no use. Oh, if any one would but tell me!"

The second night he went up again into the castle, and sittingdown by the fire, began his old song, "If I could but shiver!" Whenmidnight came, a ringing and a rattling noise was heard, gentle atfirst and louder and louder by degrees; then there was a pause, andpresently with a loud outcry half a man's body came down thechimney and fell at his feet. "Holloa," he exclaimed; "only half aman answered that ringing; that is too little." Then the ringingbegan afresh, and a roaring and howling was heard, and the otherhalf fell down. "Wait a bit," said he;
