just peel that question down into a few different components here. Firstly, we’re not guiding to 2021 margins today. So I say to you in terms of the trend that’s our target, and we’ve historically operate it at around 18% or even more that’s our goal and that’s where we want to get back to as soon as we possibly can.

If you look at what happened in 2019, there were three major things that hurt our margins and one was our sales allowances, second was the warehousing, and then there was also the impact of selling expenses, which is really a variable cost and that is not something that we actually get an offset through marketing and so I’m not really focused too much on that. It’s the sales allowances and it’s the warehousing. And my estimation is that around $35 million of that was from warehousing and distribution, around $25 million was from the sales allowances.

And then there was also the impact on lost sales because we actually could have probably generated another $50 million of sales and got the margin on that. So we are very focused on cleaning that up in 2020, the warehousing and distribution side of it does have a direct impact on sales allowances, as we clean that up, we’ll be suffering less noncompliance charges, fines, penalties and so on.

But what we’re doing, Brian, is that we’re taking a conservative view of that for 2020, because until we get traction, we’re only in March. And this addresses a question that Adam Shine had as well. We’re only in March it’s early and until we get traction, we want to make sure that we are actually guiding conservatively and we’ll update you as things go along in May, in August and as we normally do we update our guidance through our quarters.

So at this point we taking a cautious tone. We’re not happy where we’re at. We want to beat flat or in line and we are doing everything we can to get there. We’re just not committed to it today.

Brian Morrison

I understand that. But I would have to think that some of those material costs were incurred last year. I mean $35 million in warehousing, like would we not be in a position where that would be addressed by the busy season? It just, I find it a little bit maybe overly cautious if that’s the message?

Mark Segal

Well, look. Let’s get the traction. Let’s prove we can do it and
