luck to the Mexicans?

güero (a)

How do Mexicans call a blonde person?

four years

How long is the member of the Spanish parliment in office?

Pacific coast of Colombia

Where is Málape danced?

superextraordinarísimo (the most super-extraordinary)

According to the Guiness recor, which is the longest word in Spanish?

Universidad Complutense (more than 120,00 students)

Whcih is the biggest university in Madrid?

Día de la Virgen de Guadalupe

What religious holiday is celebrated in Mexico on December 12?

What can you watch un Guerro Negro, Baja California during some months?

a person with Spanish and Indian blood

What is meztizo?

Popul Vuh

What was the Quiché Indians' famous literary work?

a Mexican cowboy

What is a charro?

catiro(a)

How do Venezuelans call a blond person?

January 6

When is Día de los Reyes Magos celebrated in Hispanic countries?

Medellín (el metro)

What city in Colombia has the most modern transportation system in South America?

Pequeña Habana

What is the name given to the neighborhood in Miami where most businesses belong to Cuban immigrants?

Where in South America is Guraní spoken?

Estirar la pata

What is the equivalent of "kick the bucket" iin Spanish?

the central plaza in a Mexcan City

What is zócalo?

a castle converted into a hotel

What is a parador?

the Chihuahua

What miniature dog originated in Mexico?

December 16

When in December do Las Posados begin?

According to a Spanish sayingm if you keep your mouth shut what cannot enter?

What is the name of the guitar-like musical instrument made with the back of an armadillo?

What is the nickname givven to the residents of Buenos Aires, Argentina?

California, Texas, Florida, Illinois

Name 2 states with more than 1 million Hispanic inhabitants?

one week (July 7-14)

How long is the celebration of San Fermín in Spain?

Carlos Vives

What male Colombian singer received two Latino Grammys in 2002?

to heal people with herbs and plants

What is the role of cuarandera?

Flor de Nochebuena

What is the name in Spanish of the poinsettia?

a flea market in Madrid

What is El Rastro?

Which Spanish-speaking country has
