By: Worldwide travel LLC.

Call toll free: (800) 893-5813

TAP Air Portugal Wiki

Founded : 1945

Key people : Antonoaldo Neves (CEO), Miguel Frasquilho (Chairman)

Country : Portugal

Office Address : Aeroporto de Lisboa, Edificio 25 8 Andar,

City : Lisbon

Zip Code : 1704-801

Phone number : 011 351 707 205 700

Official Website :

TAP Air Portugal Overview 

TAP Air Portugal or also simply called TAP Portugal was founded in 1945, and it is the flag carrier of Portugal. Moreover, this airline started operations as Transportes Aéreos Portugueses. Furthermore, the airline flies around 2500 flights every week. In addition, the airline happens to be a member of the Star Alliance. Therefore, the airline has codeshare agreements with various airlines including Air Canada, Air India, Emirates, EgyptAir, Croatia Airlines, Etihad Airways, United Airlines, Benjean capital Airlines, Alitalia, Air China, JetBlueand many more. In addition, the airline’s fleet consists of 88 aircrafts of mostly Airbus crafts. 

TAP Air Portugal Hub and Destinations 

TAP Air Portugal has its main hub airport as Lisbon Portela Airport, Lisbon. The airline operates flights to 90 destinations across 38 countries. Moreover, the airline operates routes across North America and South America, Europe, Africa, and also domestically. In addition to this, some of the destinations that the airline flies to include Vienna, Rio de Janeiro, Salvador da Bahia, Toronto, Macau, Bogota, Prague, Copenhagen, Paris, Berlin, Munich, 18, Milan, Amsterdam, Panama City, Lisbon, Porto Santo, Moscow, Cape Town, Madrid, London, New York City and many more. 

TAP Air Portugal Travel Class 

This airline offers passengers two travel classes. They are Economy Class and Executive class. 

Executive Class

TAP Air Portugal executive class cabin provides the finest experience on-board. Moreover, the passengers can benefit from priority service at the Airport. In addition to this, they can enjoy a delightful culinary experience on board that is integrated with traditional products and desserts, and will fulfil the expectations of the passengers. TAP Air Portugal also provides a wide selection of movies, TV shows, news etc. on flights for entertainment of the passengers. Furthermore, passengers are given special
