ewes in 2021 and 2022, to 121.6 lambs per 100 ewes in 2023. Reduced lambing rates in Scotland and England, coupled with relatively firm finished auction market volumes this autumn, suggests that we could have a reduced carryover of hoggs into 2024. With domestic production set to remain tight, it may help to offset the potential effect of increased sheep meat imports from Australia and New Zealand on the market in the run up to Easter, especially if lamb exports to the EU continue to perform as well as they have this year.

Iain said of the pig herd: “Although census results show a five percent reduction in Scottish sow numbers compared to 2021, gilt numbers have surged, suggesting that farms are now restocking after the challenges of 2021 and 2022, and fattening pig numbers were up marginally from 2021. The results also point to an improvement in productivity, with 9.7 fattening pigs per sow being reported, up from 9.2 in 2021. England’s recovery appears to be slower, with the June census showing that fattening pigs were still down by 13% year-on-year, and by 14% on 2021.

“While EU pork production is also set to remain fundamentally tight into next year, EU farmgate prices have taken a more significant seasonal downturn than in GB, and import prices are likely to have fallen as a result, placing some competitive pressure on the domestic market.”Agrifac has published its first Sustainability Report!  

Our innovations empower farmers worldwide to effortlessly embrace sustainable agricultural practices. Delve into our Sustainability Report for more valuable insights!

Agrifac leads the way in contemporary agricultural sprayer manufacturing, offering cutting-edge solutions such as drift reduction, PWM systems, and spot spraying technologies.

I am delighted to present Agrifac Machinery BV’s Sustainability Report; a testament to our commitment to environmental responsibility, social progress, and economic viability. As we navigate the ever-evolving landscape of agriculture, it is essential that we embrace sustainability as a guiding principle, not just for our business but for the well-being of our planet and future generations. For Agrifac this is not something new; sustainability has always been part of our DNA.

Wim van den Bosch – CEO

Get your hands on our first Sustainability Report now! Discover how Agrifac is unlocking the sustainable potential of both manufacturing and agriculture. Click on the button and download for valuable insights
