reproduce at -15 °C. And researchers have grown microbes in the lab at temperatures as high as 122 °C. An icy world could be covered in something akin to Chlamydomonas nivalis, or watermelon snow – a red-coloured alga that only grows in freezing water.

2. Arid algae
It is also possible for a planet to host life even if it has barely any water, says McKay. Cyanobacteria live under and inside rocks in the Atacama Desert in Chile, which gets only a few days of rain or fog every year. And lichens grow in the Antarctic Dry Valleys, only occasionally getting small sips of water from melting snow. “You don’t need a Pacific Ocean,” says McKay. “A planet like the fictional world in Dune would be habitable, though you may not have sand worms.”

3. Deep, dark seaweed
Any life on another world would need sufficient starlight or geothermal energy sources to drive its vital processes. Luckily you don’t need a lot of sunlight to drive photosynthesis – sea plants called red macroalgae can grow in deep water with just one per cent of the sunlight we receive on Earth’s surface.

4. Radiation-proof bacteria
Anyone who has been sunburned knows the dangers of too much ultraviolet radiation. Humans and other complex organisms are sensitive to UV light and other radiation, like the cosmic rays that stream down from space. But microbes are much hardier. The most extreme example is Deinococcus radiodurans, the world’s toughest bacterium, which can survive in the sort of conditions you might find inside a nuclear reactor.

5. Oxygen haters, nitrogen lovers
It is generally agreed that abundant oxygen or ozone in the atmosphere would be a sure sign that complex life already exists on a planet, although it’s not the only one. But some bacteria, like the Actinomyces genus found in soils and compost, cannot function when there’s oxygen around. Other bacteria don’t use oxygen for growth but will tolerate its presence. Instead of lots of oxygen, we may first need to find worlds rich in nitrogen. Nothing we know of can survive without nitrogen, which is essential for building proteins and DNA. “It’s hard to imagine a kind of life that isn’t going to need lots of nitrogen,” says McKay.

However, there is one place in our solar system that could change this list entirely. Saturn’s moon Titan has an atmosphere, liquids on the surface and even a weather
