Southeast Asia, depend on the sago palm (a
type of palm tree) for food and other uses.
All Indigenous people share their strong ties to the land. Because the
rainforest is so important for their culture, they want to take care of it.
They want to live what is called a sustainable existence, meaning they use the
land without doing harm to the plants and animals that also call the rainforest
their home. As a wise Indigenous man once said, The earth is our historian,
our educator, the provider of food, medicine, clothing and protection. She is
the mother of our races.(11)
Indigenous peoples have been losing their lives and the land they live on ever
since Europeans began colonizing 500 years ago. Most of them died from common
European diseases which made Indigenous people very sick because they had never
had these diseases before. A disease such as the flu could possibly kill an
indigenous person because he/she has not been exposed to this disease before.
Many Indigenous groups have also been killed by settlers wanting their land, or
put to work as slaves to harvest the resources of the forest. Others were
converts to Christianity by missionaries, who forced them to live like
Europeans and give up their cultural traditions.
Until about forty years ago, the lack of roads prevented most outsiders from
exploiting the rainforest. These roads, constructed for timber and oil
companies, cattle ranchers and miners, have destroyed millions of acres each
All of the practices force Indigenous people off their land. Because they do
not officially own it, governments and other outsiders do not recognize their
rights to the land. They have no other choice but to move to different areas,
sometimes even to the crowded cities. They often live in poverty because they
have no skills useful for a city lifestyle and little knowledge about the
culture. For example, they know more about gathering food from the forest than
buying food from a store. Its like being forced to move to a different
country, where you knew nothing about the culture or language.

Indigenous groups are beginning to fight for their land, most often through
peaceful demonstrations. Such actions may cause them to be arrested or even to
lose their lives, but they know that if they take no action, their land and
culture could be lost forever. Kaypo Indians, for example, recently spoke to
the United States Congress to protest the building of dams in the Amazon, and
were arrested when they arrived back
