Concert Choir overseas with Mary Ellen Junda, professor of music and director of Women’s Choir, and Eric Rice, head of the Department of Music and director of the Collegium Musicum ensemble, who is a specialist in the history and performance of music composed before 1750.

During their European travel, the UConn musicians sang in Mass at Salzburg Dom, the 17th-century Baroque cathedral of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Salzburg in Austria; Saint Mark’s Basilica in the heart of Venice; and St. Peter’s Basilica in Rome. They also performed as part of the American Celebration of Music at the historic churches Basilica di Santo Spirito in Florence and Santa Maria Sopra Minerva in Rome.

For full episodes of the UConn 360 podcast, visit uconn.edu/uconn360-podcast.Monday, June 19, 2006

What to Watch This Summer

My latest column shamelessly uses the tried and true "List" to get your attention. I'm sure you've noticed how ubiquitous lists are in magazines these days. People love debate. They enjoy comparing their own thoughts rankings with a writer's opinion. We writers are happy to use that to get you to read our stuff.

So check out my list of top ten things to watch on TV this summer season at http://smallscreen.monstersandcritics.com and compare it to your own private list. Curse me for a fool, or laud me as a genius, but just check it out. We writers love attention!

Friday, June 16, 2006

Movies for the Dead

I joined a group of friends at the cemetery for a movie the other night. Every summer, Hollywood Forever, cemetery to the stars, hosts movies on Saturday nights. Yes, it's rather appalling to think of "Philadelphia Story" (a great movie, by the way) being projected onto the wall of a mausoleum while picnickers enjoy wine and cheese not far from the tomb of Douglas Fairbanks and one of the Ramones. It's disrespectful, I suppose. When I discussed this outing with friends at work, they expressed a distaste for disturbing the dead in such a manner.

But I enjoyed it. I've always liked cemeteries -- they are not only peaceful, but fascinating. We're all so afraid of death. How we decide to mark our deaths provides a fascinating show for those left behind. And Hollywood Forever contains the remains of Rudolph Valentino and Mary Pickford
