before Malleolus sent word to Apicius with the news that his knives had been completed and that the blacksmith had traveled to Rome to present them personally. His note requested a meeting the next morning. Apicius read the scrap of parchment down with a shaking hand.

“Is there anything you would like for me to carry back?” asked the slave who had delivered the message.

“Tell him that I’ll be there as requested,” he said, dropping a copper coin into the boy’s hand.

That night was mostly sleepless for Apicius. He couldn’t stop thinking about his decision and about the knives. He was worried that he had wasted his one million sestartii on a trickster. Last night Thrasius had gone over the books with him once more. He had estimated that there was close to 11 million sestartii left in the city coffers under his name. Only 11 million! Gone were the days of lavish feasting. Gone were the days of heavy patronage to schools and the arts. Gone were the expensive gifts that each guest received upon leaving his domus. He was nearly a pauper and it wouldn’t be long before all of Rome would know.

That thought steeled his resolve. He decided to forgo his morning meal in bed, instead rushing his slaves through his morning rituals. When he left the house with a large bag of gold aureas tied beneath his toga, he felt, for the first time in the last two years, in control and powerful. He knew how this would end and it wouldn’t end with all of Rome seeing him as a pauper.

When Apicius reached Malleolus’ insula, he dismissed the four slaves he had brought as bodyguards before knocking on the door. Malleolus himself answered, a broad smile on his tanned face.

“My dear friend, today is a very happy day for you! Come inside and meet Sayyid, master of swords.” He ushered Apicius into his apartments. The curtains were drawn on the eastern windows and the sunlight gave the room a warm glow.

Sayyid waited in the courtyard where he was lounging on a long chaise that Apicius recognized from the interior of Malleolus’ rooms. A large tray of grapes and cheese sat on the table in front of him, untouched. He was a tall man with a close cropped beard of thick dark hair. Not a Roman citizen, he did not wear the traditional to
