removed from mortal affairs.[32]. Julius Caesar opens with a scene of class conflict, the plebeians versus the tribunes. Caesar's power is increasing in Rome, and he is much-loved by the populace. By this point the Senate had split with Antonius, and cast its lot with Cassius, confirming him as governor of the province. Epicurus himself, from whom all your Catii and Amafinii[34] take their leave as poor interpreters of his words, says ‘there is no living pleasantly without living a good and just life. Despite his villainous tendencies, Cassius remains a complex character with hostile yet impressively passionate traits. Cassius. He opposed Caesar, and eventually he commanded a fleet against him during Caesar's Civil War: after Caesar defeated Pompey in the Battle of Pharsalus, Caesar overtook Cassius and forced him to surrender. [13] He then proceeded to harass ships off the Italian coast. Cassius is a bully who gets what he wants from people by displaying his bad temper. [29] Shackleton Bailey points to a date of two or three years earlier. At the heart of his resentment and willingness to assassinate is Cassius’s deep jealousy of Caesar’s rise to power. Act III. He observes people and takes little enjoyment from life other than what allows for a sardonic smile. He uses that skill of is to suit his own purposes. Although Cassius was "the moving spirit" in the plot against Caesar, winning over the chief assassins to the cause of tyrannicide, Brutus became their leader. In Julius Caesar, Brutus is the more naïve, dominant and noble character, while Cassius is the more perceptive, submissive, and manipulative person. His early philosophical commitments are hazy, though D.R. Brutus and Cassius are very different in the way they perceive Antony. Cassius urges Brutus to oppose Caesar for fear that Caesar may become king. Of all the leading characters in Julius Caesar, Cassius develops most as the action progresses. In the quotation above, Cassius explicitly rejects the idea that morality is a good to be chosen for its own sake; morality, as a means of achieving pleasure and ataraxia, is not inherently superior to the removal of political anxieties. Had Brutus taken Cassius’s advice, the conspirators might have succeeded in convincing the Roman people that Caesar had to die. [8] He studied philosophy at Rhodes under Archelaus of Rhodes and became fluent in Greek
