, tendon and bone tissue.

Nose, the mechanism of smelling

Olfactory receptors produce electric signals when stimulated by odours.

3D puzzle

This exciting and colourful game is designed to develop spatial perception. You can check your solutions using isometric views.

Altitudinal zonation

In mountainous areas the climate, soil properties, the flora and fauna change depending on elevation.

Tower of London (16th century)

The intriguing history of this historic castle spans nearly a thousand years.

Solids of revolution

Rotating a geometric shape around a line within its geometric plane as an axis results in a solid of revolution.

Carboniferous flora and fauna

This animation presents some animals and plants that lived between the Devonian and Permian periods (358–299 million years ago).

Muscle tissues

The three types of muscle found in the human body are the smooth, the striated and the cardiac muscle.

Structure of skeletal muscles

This animation demonstrates the fine molecular structure and mechanism of muscles.

Evaporation and boiling

What happens in a liquid during evaporation and boiling? What does its boiling point depend on?

Galileo Galilei's workshop

Galileo Galilei's scientific achievements contributed greatly to the advancement of physics and astronomy.

Diocletian's Palace (Split, Croatia)

The fortress-like palace was built by Roman Emperor Diocletian on the coast near his home town.

Voice production

When producing sound, the vocal cords are vibrated by the air flowing out of the lung.

Characteristics of sound waves

This animation explains the most important characteristics of waves through sound waves.

Added to your cart.Recycling about a meter-high stack of newspapers saves one tree from being chopped down. Better yet, use online news sources and save yourself the trouble all together.
Every ton of paper recycled saves 17 trees. Always remember to recycle!
Nature is one big recycling station, but we are not. On average, we throw away 80 percent of manufactured goods within six months of their purchase.
Look for the Forest Stewardship Council logo when buying wood and paper products. This certification means that the product came from a company which sources its materials from well managed forests and cares about protecting biodiversity and the...
Cut down on your fish consumption and help in the fight against unsustainable fishing. Be aware of what you eat and where it came from!
Did you know that half the world lives on less than US$2 a day? Consider volunteering your time, or making a donation, to help those in need.
Did you
