of WP5 of topic 1 of the mentioned Dragon4 project. For this purpose, the remote sensing data were converted into biophysical variables (LAI and above ground biomass), using empirical relationships with ground data obtained during the 2015 crop season, in field campaigns carried close to the satellite acquisitions (on wheat, barley, alfalfa, broad bean and maize). For optical data, an algorithm based on the training of artificial neural networks with PROSPECT+SAIL model simulations was employed to retrieve biophysical canopy variables. These variables were then assimilated into the SAFY model (Duchemin et al., 2008, Environ Model Softw. 23, 876-892), using the Ensemble Kalman Filter (EnKF) method, to estimate grain yield. The models were re-calibrated on the basis of a preliminary sensitivity analysis study. Two versions of the SAFY model were compared, i.e. the original SAFY and a modified version (SAFYE) which includes a description of the soil water balance and water stress factors (Veloso, 2014, PhD Thesis, University of Toulouse, France). The results were validated using yield map data collected using a yield monitor system available on the farm's combine harvester machine. A very small difference emerged between the results of the two model versions, suggesting that the original SAFY version, which includes less parameters and input variables than SAFYE, is a suitable and practical choice for farm-based grain yield estimation, although water stress is inferred indirectly, from the processes regulating leaf growth.

Oral presentation

Detection and Classification of Infestation Diseases by using multi- and hyper-spectral data

Yue Shi1,2, Wenjiang Huang1, Yinhying Dong1, Linyi Liu1,2, Giovanni Laneve3, Stefano Pignatti4

1Institute of Remote Sensing and Digital Earth, Chinese Academy of Science, China, People's Republic of; 2University of Chinese Academy of Sciences，Beijing, China; 3School of Aerospace Engineering, Sapienza University of Rome, Rome, Italy; 4Institute of Methodologies for Environmental Analysis, National Research Council of Italy, Rome, Italy

Yellow rust is one of the most important fungal diseases of wheat and have caused serious yield loss of winter wheat in China. Studies focused on detecting and monitoring of rust infestation highly rely on field investigation and visual judgement with an advanced pathogen attack. Automatic methods based on remotely sensed techniques and spectral absorption features for an
