ep on their own account; but look upon the others as happy persons; as so soon to be made partakers of the immortal order of beings. Are not we therefore ashamed to have lower notions than the Indians? and by our own cowardice to lay a base reproach upon the laws of our country, which are so much desired and imitated by all mankind? But put the case that we had been brought up under another persuasion, and taught that life is the greatest good which men are capable of; and that death is a calamity: however the circumstances we are now in ought to he an inducement to us to bear such calamity courageously. Since ’tis by the will of God, and by necessity that we are to die. For it now appears that God hath made such a decree against the whole Jewish nation, that we are to be deprived of this life which [he knew] we would not make a due use of. For do not you ascribe the occasion of our present condition to yourselves; nor think the Romans are the true occasion that this war we have had with them is become so destructive to us all. These things have not come to pass by their power; but a more powerful cause hath intervened, and made us afford them an occasion of their appearing to be conquerors over us. What Roman weapons, I pray you, were those, by which the Jews at Cesarea were slain?21 On the contrary, when they were no way disposed to rebel, but were all the while keeping their seventh day festival, and did not so much as lift up their hands against the citizens of Cesarea; yet did those citizens run upon them in great crowds, and cut their throats, and the throats of their wives and children: and this without any regard to the Romans themselves, who never took us for their enemies till we revolted from them. But some may be ready to say, that truly the people of Cesarea had always a quarrel against those that lived among them; and that when an opportunity offered itself they only satisfied the old rancour they had against them. What then shall we say to those of Scythopolis?22 who ventured to wage war with us on account of the Greeks. Nor did they do it by way of revenge upon the Romans, when they acted in concert with our country men. Wherefore you see how little our good will and fidelity to them profited us: while they were slain, they and their whole families, after the most inhuman
