to leave questions unresolved.

In reality, there are bombproof civil defense bunkers all around the U.S. that were built during the cold war, especially during the Eisenhower administration. These include the famous Cheyenne Mountain operations center of the Strategic Air Command and the large complex at Greenbrier, West Virginia, which was once the designated site for senior government officials in case of atomic attack on Washington. (There are good Wikipedia articles on both). Civil defense shelters are an old story, and they have nothing to do with 2012.

Question: Should we be worried about the gradual warming of the Sun?

No, but you should be worried about the rapid warming of the Earth that we are experiencing today. The Sun influences climate in two ways. First, there is the periodic variation in solar energy output related to the eleven-year sunspot (or solar activity) cycle. The temperature changes due to this variation have been carefully monitored from space for several decades, and they are very small—almost too small to be detected in global temperature measurements.

Second, there is the gradual warming that has taken place since the Sun was formed more than four billion years ago, which will continue for billions of years into the future. As it ages, the Sun brightens by about 7 percent per billion years, which is negligible on any timescale of less than tens of millions of years, although it will make Earth uninhabitable some two to three billion years in the future.

Our current climate crisis is not related to the Sun. It is the direct response of the Earth to the added carbon dioxide and methane and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere. More than century ago, Nobel Prize-winning chemist Svante Arrhenius first predicted that the release of carbon dioxide from burning fossil fuels would cause additional greenhouse warming. Now we are seeing this as a dramatic climate change that places our entire civilization at risk.

There are interesting parallels between the campaign against climate science and the widespread efforts to deny biological evolution and block its inclusion in science classes. Both climate denialism and evolution denialism use pseudoscience to fight real science. They include founding of nonprofit institutes, publication of fake science in non-refereed journals, and sophisticated marketing in the halls of power. Apparently some scientists can be seduced by a strong ideological commitment to fight government environmental regulations, just as some creationists are much more interested in saving our souls (and theirs) than in addressing the science of biology. Like creationists, many of the climate contrarians are “merchants of doubt,” using pseud
