France and Germany. Retesting of 2014 isolates showed full sensitivity. Isolates sampled in 2014 from the Czech Republic were sensitive, within the baseline.

In 2015, extensive monitoring in Germany showed particularly in trial-sites for the first time occurrence of strains with strongly decreased dose-response in bioassays, carrying the mutation C-H146R or C-H153R. Another mutation, C-N87S, which was found to be associated with low resistance factors, was found in Germany, Ireland and Slovenia in single isolates. No mutations were detected in Austria and Croatia.

In 2016, no mutations were detected in Sweden, Denmark, Estonia, Slovakia, France and Greece.

Samples carrying the mutations C-H146R or C-H153R, associated with significantly decreased sensitivity, were detected in Germany, Ireland, the Netherlands and the UK. Observations in trial sites confirmed the results from 2015. A decreased dose response was observed in field trial sites in Germany and the United Kingdom with high proportions of SDHIs in spray programs. Samples taken from the untreated plots at the same sites showed baseline level sensitivity.

In 2017 (disease pressure moderate), reported data show no mutations in Finland, Norway, Spain and Greece. Low frequency had been found in Estonia, Latvia, Italy, Austria, Switzerland, Czech Republic, Denmark and Sweden. A heterogeneous situation, ranging from low to high (frequency of mutations and sensitivity), was observed in Germany, France, United Kingdom, Ireland and Netherlands.

Disease pressure was low in 2018.

No mutations were found in Czech Republic, Finland, Italy, Latvia, Norway, Romania, Russia, Spain, Sweden and Switzerland.
Low frequency has been found in Austria, France, Hungary, Poland and the Ukraine.

A heterogeneous situation, ranging from low to high (frequency of mutations and sensitivity), was observed in Belgium, Germany, Denmark, the United Kingdom, Ireland and the Netherlands.

Significantly decreased sensitivity is mainly associated with the mutations C-G91R, C-H146R/L, C-G171D or C-H153R. Additionally, a mutation linked to lower resistance factors (C-N87S) was detected.

Data from 2019 showed no mutations in Austria, Italy, Latvia, Norway, Spain, Slovenia, Slovakia and Switzerland.

Low frequency has been found in Austria, Hungary, Poland, Sweden and Ukraine.

A heterogeneous situation, ranging from low to high (frequency of mutations and sensitivity), was observed in Belgium, Germany and the Netherlands.

Moder
