many of the emigrants were young well-educated people, it further weakened the state economically. The government tried to stop people leaving by fortifying its western borders and in 1961 by establishing the Berlin Wall. Several hundred people were killed by border guards.

In 1989, a peaceful revolution in the GDR led to the destruction of the Berlin Wall and emergence of a government committed to liberalization. The following year, free elections were held, and international negotiations led to the signing of the Final Settlement treaty on the status and borders of Germany. The GDR was dissolved and Germany was reunited on 3 October 1990.

Naming conventions4 Sowjetische Besatzungszone (Soviet Occupation Zone; often abbreviated to SBZ), and sogenannte DDR (so-called GDR).5 Another name was Middle Germany, referring to the location of East Germany in the geographic centre of unified pre-1937 Germany. Usage of the latter term, because it was clearly based on geographic location, was sometimes picked up by East Germans. The center of political power in East Berlin was referred to as Berlin-Karlshorst. In the 1950s, this geographic designation referred to the seat of command of the Soviet forces in East Germany.4

Over time, however, the abbreviation DDR was also increasingly used colloquially by West Germans and West German media.6 Ostdeutschland (an ambiguous term meaning simultaneously East or Eastern Germany) was not commonly used in East or West German common parlance to refer to the German Democratic Republic, because Ostdeutschland usually referred to the former eastern territories of Germany.citation needed

The term Westdeutschland (West Germany) when used by West Germans was almost always a reference to the geographic region of Western Germany but not to the area within the boundaries of the Federal Republic of Germany. However, this use was not always consistent, as, for example, West Berliners frequently used the term Westdeutschland to denote the Federal Republic.7

Germany defeated: On the basis of the Potsdam Conference, the Allies jointly occupied Germany west of the Oder–Neisse line.

According to German historian Jürgen Kocka (2010):

Conceptualizing the GDR as a dictatorship has become widely accepted, while the meaning of the concept dictatorship varies. Massive evidence has been collected that proves the repressive, undemocratic, illiberal, nonpluralistic character of the GDR regime and its ruling party."8

Explaining the
