as she struggles with the ramifications of the Games.

Why is The Hunger Games a banned book?

The Hunger Games by Suzanne Collins is not banned per se. However, it has continuously remained controversial ever since its publication. In 2016, it became number 5 on the most challenged books list of the American Library Association for “insensitivity, offensive language, violence, anti-family, anti-ethic and occult/satanic values.”

Is The Hunger Games okay for an 11-year-old?

The Hunger Games by Suzanne Collins is a young adult dystopian novel that has been deemed by Scholastic to be appropriate for children aged between 11 and 13. However, parents are concerned that it might be too violent for young children and that it might be too graphic at times. It is also commonly categorized as a Young Adult novel meant for 12 to 18-year-olds.

Why did Katniss kill herself?

Katniss does not kill herself at the end of the Hunger Games. However, she does attempt to commit suicide as an act of defiance against the Capitol, along with her partner and male tribute from District 12, Peeta Mellark. She does not go through with her suicide, as the Gamemakers allow her to return home along with Peeta.

Who does Katniss actually love?

Before she goes to the Hunger Games, Katniss harbors strong feelings for her long-standing friend, Gale. However, she develops an unbreakable bond with Peeta Mellark during the Hunger Games. She also plays the part of a lover to gain sympathy from the sponsors during the Games. As a result, she emerges with confused feelings at the end of the book.

The Hunger Games Plot Summary 🏹
About Neesha Thunga K
Neesha graduated in 2020 with a degree in MA English. Before that, she has spent several years teaching English and writing for various organizations. As a lover of English literature, she truly believes that crafting stories through words is the greatest achievement of mankind. She is now pursuing her passion for literature as an Expert on the Book Analysis team.
Share via
Copy link
Powered by Social SnapBeautiful People #11: The Transgender Gang Leader

by - 3:44 PM

Hey, young bloods! Today I'm teaming up with Cait @ Paper Fury and Sky @ Further Up and Further In to bring you Beautiful People, a link up where you answer questions about your book characters. This month, I
