to start. You

[00:21:14] know, doing command and control or whatever. And

[00:21:16] so for a couple of weeks, I did that.

[00:21:18] I started to tell people what to do. I did, you know, I, I got very involved in decisions and all sorts of things and it didn't work.

[00:21:30] It didn't work at all. And after that, I very fortunately got coached by somebody and suddenly realized this was the opposite of my approach. It was stressing me out and having a bad effect. So after that, I stepped back and allowed people again to have their freedom and their trust and people, and the growth in happy over that period has been thanks to that because you know what I was saying to do as the outfit made note, isn't what the clients wanted.

[00:21:56] I'm not actually that much in touch with our client. You know, many of our, many of our people speak to their clients, speak to our clients several times a day, more than that. I might speak to them maybe once or twice a day, they know what the clients need. They know what they want. And they were able to put him in place courses, which really met the client's need.

[00:22:14] Once I stepped back, once I stopped being involved in, you've got to make this new course and that kind of thing. So that was a, that was a key lesson, which I should have known years ago because it's the corporates, the packet that you give people just to beat them. But it's even the case in a Southern pandemic when it looks like the world is crushing and you're, you're about to go bankrupt.

[00:22:35] Lech Guzowski: I'm pretty certain, there, there are a number of business owners, CEOs senior leaders in many organizations that went into that command and control mode.

[00:22:45] Since you went into it. Why was it? What was the kind of motivation? What was the thinking behind it? That kind of just pushes that this is what I need to do.

[00:22:55] Henry Stewart: Well, it was kind of, can you see how terrible it is? Can't you see, you know, we've got to, we've got to move instantly. We've got to
