this informative content

Discover this valuable analysis

Related PostsBylaws & Ethics Committee

Bylaws and Ethics Committee Chair

   Maxine Lewis, BA, CMM, CPC, CPC-I, CCS-P, CPMA

The Bylaws and Ethics Committee advises the Board of Directors on the interpretation of the Society Bylaws (but the Board of Directors shall have final authority to interpret the Bylaws with the advice of legal counsel) and shall appoint a Parliamentarian for each Membership Meeting whose decisions as to procedure will be final. The Committee has the responsibility for the enforcement and maintenance of the Code of Ethics.

The Bylaws and Ethics Committee Chair must oversee the currency and enforcement of the bylaws. More specifically, the chair person must:
* Know the bylaws of the NSCHBC
* Ensure that the organization functions in accordance with bylaws and standing rules.
* Ensure that meetings are conducted in accordance with parliamentary procedure.
* Perform any and all other duties as specified in the organization bylaws.

The Role of the Bylaws and Ethics CommitteeThe committee follows the same process for updates as it does for the original draft by reworking the wording where necessary, circulating the revised version and tabling it for approval at a board meeting. The bylaws should specify if board approval is sufficient for minor changes, or if the revised bylaws require member adoption before implementing the changes.

The Bylaws Committee is responsible for presenting proposed bylaws changes to the membership providing the current bylaw and the bylaw as it would be read if amended.

Privacy Policy      Site Disclaimer      Sitemap

©2019 National Society of Certified Healthcare Business Consultants

Powered by Wild Apricot Membership SoftwareHow to Use MetaTrader 4 Android’s Technical Indicators

Investing in the stock market can be a daunting task, especially when you are doing it for the first time. In addition, it can also be tricky to manage your trades from a desktop computer, especially if you’re on the go. With the rise of mobile technology, it is now possible to manage your trading from your phone, and most of the market share has been captured by MetaTrader 4 for Android. The MetaTrader 4 for Android app has become extremely popular among traders, and rightly so. In this blog post, we shall discuss how you can boost your trading skills with metatrader 4 android.

The Basics:
Before diving into the app, it is essential to get familiar with the trading process. Investing in stocks requires a fundamental understanding of the market and the stocks you
