of Bonaparte, tells Liszt Rome, occupied by the enemy with the image of the square of the Quirinale Palace with guns and soldiers. And is quite different from the peaceful life of Rome, causing the admiration of visitors, captured on the sheet by a Tourist in Rome (Moscow, GOS. Museum of fine arts. A. S. Pushkin).

The watercolors and drawings of Pinelli loved to depict scenes from modern life on the background of the ancient city and its environs. Young peasant women washing clothes in the cascade of fountains in a Park in Tivoli (Laundresses in Tivoli, Rome, Museum of Rome), a family of peasants stopped to rest at the ruins of the Colosseum (Italian family, Budapest, Museum of fine arts). Drawings of Pinelli were eagerly bought by tourists. Special popularity enjoyed his watercolors and lithographs of the Roman carnival — colourful scenes with elegant townsfolk singing and dancing to the music of pifferari and playing the mandolin (Roman carnival, 1822, Rome, NAT. gallery of modern art).

Among the citizens Pinelli sometimes portrayed himself and costumed characters of Commedia Dell'arte. Especially know how to have fun at carnivals people in the poorest quarter, Trastevere, whose life Pinelli knew and liked to call himself "the artist of Trastevere". Here Pinelli sketched the regulars zucchini (Osteria Monti, 1820, Rome, NAT. gallery of modern art), various curious scenes, strolling important representatives of rich people, representatives of the local plebs. But all the inhabitants of Trastevere, he sought to capture the majestic features of ancient Romans, the descendants of whom they were (Roman, Rome, Museum of Rome). Here he found the robbers (bravi) is a brave, attacking passing deserted places of the rich, but never offend the poor. Internal dignity, courage and nobility always emphasized in the images of his rogues (watercolors Three robbers, Baltimore, the Art Institute; the Robber and the woman, 1821, Moscow, GOS. Museum of fine arts. A. S. Pushkin). So is the hero of the poem John. Berneri Soldier MEO — MEO Pataca, the way in which Pinelli immortalized in a series of drawings. In the work Berneri told about the Roman celebrations in honor of the victory of the Austrians over
