trip to Italy. This time I'm sharing with you our experience of Florence, which I surprisingly warmed to (excuse the pun whilst it supplied us with, what felt like, sub-zero temperatures) more than Rome, despite the bout of food poisoning filling up our ONLY full day there to explore and rendering us bed-bound for a large portion of the day. Welcome to anecdote number one of 'what went wrong in Italy'. You're gunna want to keep reading...
Arriving in Florence was no easy feat. We made it to Termini (huge, MASSIVE, can't-find-the-toilets kind of train station) in Rome pretty smoothly but if you're a Walking Dead fan, you can imagine I wasn't really looking forward to what we might turn up to, simply based on the name. Termini sounds a lot like Terminus and I was tired, cold and not really up for facing cannibals, okay? Turns out it's actually a pretty cool place and it had free wifi...which came in rather handy considering our train was delayed a total of 50 minutes by the end of it. On the plus side - it did have leather seats, plug sockets and MORE FREE WIFI on board, so 'every cloud', right?! If you are planning a trip to Florence however, I'd advise, if you've been travelling a lot and are hungry, not to arrive before 7pm. We had to stick out a good, few hours of starvation waiting for the restaurants to open because not a single one around our hotel served food before then. This was discovered, may I add, after walking around in circles for 40 minutes freezing our butts off, desperately clutching on to the hopes of a warm pasta. Florence said no. We did eventually (at 7.30pm) find a charming, little place that managed to squeeze us in a tiny corner of their fully booked restaurant. We were cold, we were hungry, we were aching and we were also a tad tipsy from the bar we'd stumbled into beforehand on empty stomachs so yep, the food didn't even touch the sides!
It was this following day that all hell broke loose. 6.30am and in came the extreme stomach pains. I laid there to dwell in them a little, thinking perhaps it was a bit of trapped wind (we all get it!!) but then it hit me. I'm talking violent vomiting. The kind where you can't stop yourself and your face can't keep up with
