2007, for example, Professor Alberto Piazza, from the University of Torino reported to the European Society of Human Genetics that there is overwhelming evidence that the Etruscans were settlers from old Anatolia (now in southern Turkey). That conclusion was based on comparative DNA studies. That lends credence to the idea of an Etruscan people and their language spreading from the east into Italy. It also supports the claim by Greek historian Herodotus (c.484-425 BC) in Histories that the Etruscans were from Anatolia.*2

The only way we have been able to compare Etruscan to anything else is shown in the above image. These are the Pyrgi Tablets, sheets of gold written in both Etruscan and Phoenician. The tablets are in the Etruscan Museum in Rome and are the closest thing we have to a "Rosetta stone" for Etruscan; that is, a bilingual display by which it is possible to compare a known language (Phoenician) to an unknown language (Etruscan). The Etruscan language portion has 16 lines and 37 words. The date is roughly 500 BC. The Pyrgi Tablets, found in a 1964 excavation of a sanctuary of ancient Pyrgi on the Tyrrhenian coast of Italy (today the town of Santa Severa, a few miles north of Rome). The tablets record a dedication made to the Phoenician goddess Ashtaret. Why Phoenecian? At the time, the Etruscans, Greeks, and Phoenicians, the great sea-faring merchants from the eastern Mediterranean, had trading posts on the island of Sardinia. Contact among the three groups was common.

Can we still get lucky? Maybe find a longer piece of true Etruscan literature or history accompanied by a handy bi-lingual glossary in Greek or Latin? Such things do happen, but they are rare. The Rosetta Stone in 1799 (by which we were able to decipher ancient Egyptian hieroglyphics) was one such discovery; another was Henry Rawlinson's fortuitous discovery of a tri-lingual proclamation of Darius the Great inscribed on a rock face in Behistun (modern Iran), leading to the discipline of modern Assyriology; or the Royal Library of Ashurbanipal in 1849 (in modern-day Iraq) with The Epic of Gilgamesh
