can buy. Heat
them in the office microwave, and lunch at work is quick and easy.
Food preparation today allows for more variety. With refrigerators and freezers, we can preserve a lot of
different foods in our homes. Since technology makes cooking so much faster, people are willing to
make several dishes for even a small meal. Parents are more likely to let children be picky, now that
they can easily heat them up some prepackaged macaroni and cheese on the side. Needless to say, adults
living in the same house may have very different eating habits as well. If they don’t want to cook a lot
of different dishes, it’s common now to eat out at restaurants several times a week.
Healthful eating is also easier than ever now. When people cook, they use new fat substitutes and
cooking sprays to cut fat and calories. This reduces the risk of heart disease and high cholesterol.
Additionally, we can buy fruits and vegetable fresh, frozen or canned. They are easy to prepare, so
many of us eat more of those nutritious items daily. A hundred years ago, you couldn’t imagine the
process of taking some frozen fruit and ice from the freezer, adding some low-fat yogurt from a plastic
cup and some juice from a can in the refrigerator, and whipping up a low-fat smoothie in the blender!
Our lifestyle is fast, but people still like good food. What new food preparation technology has given us
is more choices. Today, we can prepare food that is more convenient, healthier, and of greater variety
than ever before in history.
(376 words)
IELTS Writing Sample
It has been said, “Not every thing that is learned is contained in books.”
Compare and contrast knowledge gained from experience with knowledge gained from books. In
your opinion, which source is more important? Why?
“Experience is the best teacher” is an old cliché, but I agree with it. The most important, and sometimes
the hardest, lessons we learn in life come from our participation in situations. You can’ learn everything
from a book.
Of course, learning from books in a formal educational setting is also valuable. It’s in schools that we
learn the information we need to function in our society. We learn how to speak and write and
understand mathematical equations. This is all
