indicate changes in blood flow, from which can be inferred changes in levels of activity in specific brain regions – notably, in this case, the hippo-campus, which is involved, among other things, in making memories and giving them context.

“I personally think it has a great deal of potential for treating addiction,” says Carhart-Harris. “It’s slightly hypothetical, but it’s based on what we know about the way the brain works, which is that it settles into configurations of activity that seem to underly certain psychopathologies.”Depression and addictions rest on reinforced patterns of brain activity, and a psychedelic will introduce a relative chaos. Patterns that have become reinforced disintegrate under the drug. I’ve used the metaphor of shaking a snowglobe. And there’s some evidence that psychedelics induce plasticity, in terms of neural connections in the brain, such that there is a window of opportunity in which connections can either be broken or reinforced. New things can be learnt at the same time that old things can be unlearnt. It induces a kind of suppleness of mind.”

Dr Carhart-Harris says: 'Criminalising these substances doesn't help anyone. Historically they've benefited mankind'

Dr Robin Carhart-Harris is the first scientist in over 40 years to test LSD on humans – and you’re next – People – News – The Independent.

Psychedelics: Lifting the veil | Robin Carhart-Harris | TEDxWarwick

Can Magic Mushrooms treat depression?- Robin Carhart-Harris at New Scientist Live 2017Oral Maxillofacial Surgery & Dental Surgery

Scope of Services (subspecialties):

  1. Oral Pathology and Medicine, including laser surgery
  2. Dentoalveolar Surgery
  3. Management of Cysts and Benign tumors of the jaws
  4. Maxillofacial Traumatology
  5. Major Preprosthetic surgery of the jaws
  6. Oral and maxillofacial implants for tooth replacement and maxillofacial prosthesis
  7. Management of Temporomandibular joint disorders including open and arthroscopic surgery
  8. Orthopaedic (orthognathic) and soft tissue surgery for facial deformity
  9. Cleft lip and palate surgery, both primary and secondary, and with a team approach
  10. Management of Salivary Gland diseases, including sial
