, as one of the commercial icons of the Champs.

    1. Janie

      My mother was in Fouquet’s in May, late seventies. She ordered asparagus and sole. The waiter removed the half plate of asparagus, which she reserved to have with the sole. When she asked him to leave it, he said, “Madame, it is the first course” and took it away. She remained ticked about that until her death twenty years later.

  5. Tom67

    I have been involved in quite a bit of radical demonstrations in Berlin in the 80s and 90´s. I have seen how specialised riot police can and will act if given the command. I recall a demonstration against Reagan in 1988 when whole areas of Berlin werde cordoned off so protestors couldn´t make it to the Brandenburg gate where Reagan was mouthing “tear down that wall”. (By the way and OT: Actually somebody had sprayed “Reagan fuck off” at the place he was supposed to speak. They didn´t manage to erase it in time so converted the “fuck off” into some sort of weird smiley.)
    What I want to get at is that surely the famous (or infamous) French riot police which has quite a fearsome reputation is able to control crowds that are much smaller than the ones which turned out in Berlin. Furthermore Berlin was then full of angry young draft dodgers like myself who will create a hell of a lot more trouble than middle age family men. Still if the police really wanted to they were always able to control the situation as when Reagan came to Berlin. There is no doubt in my mind whatsoever that indeed the destruction is the work of Agents provocateurs. A time honoured way to make the public bellow for harsh suppression of social protest.

    1. David

      It’s not about crowd control, which the French police are as good at as any others in Europe. It’s about the arrival of small groups of violent protesters from unexpected directions, there to break things. In addition, as outlined above, the police were under orders last weekend not to react too strongly, because it was thought the protests were winding down.
      It needs to be stressed that the government don’t enjoy the present situation at all. The last thing they would do is to encourage the violence. And public opinion, if not at all on the side of the casseurs (wreckers) is not exactly rallying to the government either.

    2.
