For example, Shakespeare wrote of the concept in Richard II:

Not all the water in the rough rude sea  
Can wash the balm off from an anointed king.  
The breath of worldly men cannot depose  
The deputy elected by the Lord.  
For every man that Bolingbroke hath pressed  
To lift shrewd steel against our golden crown,  
God for his Richard hath in heavenly pay  
A glorious angel. Then, if angels fight,  
Weak men must fall; for heaven still guards the right.22

It is hardly surprising then that papal leaders would balk at the notion of Nation-States grasping temporal power on their own. Long before Westphalia, notions crept up that the papal states could not be ruler of all the Earth. For example, the struggle for power between church and state began to heat up in the mid-twelfth century. Although the general power structure did not seem to change much per se, the appearance of where power came from once again became a prevalent talking point.

21 Id.
22 WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE, RICHARD II act 3, sc. 2.
Most interesting to this author was the debacle between Holy Roman Emperor Frederick Barbarossa and Pope Hadrian (or, more specifically, between the Emperor and the bureaucracy of Rome). The most intriguing aspect of the story is the overtly political nature of the fight.

The concepts of temporal and spiritual power once more took center stage when Frederick declined to accede to typical Holy Roman Emperor etiquette during his first meeting at Rome (in refusing to help the Pope get into his saddle). That Frederick publicly insulted the “Senate” of Rome after they insinuated his power came as a gift from them was no balm to the already tense situation. Five years later, the issue had still not been put to bed, and came to a head at the Diet of Besançon. The fire began anew with the use of the word *beneficium* in a letter written to the Emperor by the Pope’s chancellor, since that word has two or more official meanings. On the one hand, the word can mean benefit. On the other, it can mean gift (as in when someone “benefits” another by bequeathing money, lands, or power). The first meaning could be a cordial recognition of proper imperial power, but the second would mean that the papacy, if it was to be truly represented by the letter, was exerting temporal power by claiming that power on
