strong candidate against him would be a historic tragedy that the whole world would feel," Marie-Agnes Strack-Zimmermann, of the liberal FDP party, told the Rheinische Post paper.

A spokesperson for Scholz did not comment on the specifics of the debate, but said the chancellor valued Biden highly and had never spoken to Trump as their terms did not overlap.

During the debate, Trump accused Biden of not standing up to China on trade. He also said China's Xi Jinping, North Korea's Kim Jong Un and Russia's Vladimir Putin "don't respect" Biden and that he was driving the country "into World War Three".

Biden retorted by saying Trump's tariff proposals would result in higher costs for American consumers, and that he "cuddles up" to the likes of Kim and Putin.

Putin has said it made little difference to Russia who was in the White House. On Friday, the Kremlin declined comment on what it said was an internal U.S. matter.

Keir Starmer, leader of the British Labour party that leads polls before a July 4 election, said Britain's relationship with the U.S. was strong and "above the individuals."

In Sydney, several Australian officials and experts had attended a workshop titled "Trump 2.0" as the debate was aired.

"The overwhelming feeling from today is that it was a disaster for Biden," said Peter Dean, a professor at the United States Studies Centre in Sydney who was at the workshop.

"The mood has changed considerably after the debate and the general view is that if you weren't preparing for a Trump 2.0 then that is the smart play and the smart move now."

(Reporting by David Dolan and Tim Kelly in Tokyo, Heekyong Yang, Hyunsu Yim and Jihoon Lee in Seoul and Lewis Jackson in Sydney, Friederike Heine in Berlin, Crispian Balmer in Rome, Sarah Young in London; Writing by John Geddie and Matthias Williams; Editing by Miral Fahmy, Alex Richardson and Timothy Heritage)Newt Gingrich has been a staunch supporter of Donald Trump for quite some time. As such, the former Speaker of the House has developed a close relationship with the president-elect. It was even speculated early on that Gingrich would serve as Trump's Secretary of State. However, in an interview with McClatchy, Gingrich said he wouldn't be part of Trump's Cabinet, rather, he intends "to be focused on strategic planning" for the Republican Party.

Strategic planning
