Boretsky.

The abolition of Kyiv Metropolitan Archdiocese

In1686 Kyiv and the whole Left-bank Ukraine became parts of the Russian state (then — the Tsardom of Moscow). Young tsar Petr I had persuaded Constantinople to pass Kyiv Metropolitan Archdiocese under the rule of the Moscow Patriarchate.

There is a legend about bribing Ecumenical Patriarch with gold and furs according to which 200 coins and 120 sables were presented to Dionysius IV of Constantinople by Russian ambassadors. Even if the story is true it is very doubtful that there was a real bribe — mutual presents were a norm during diplomatic visits at that time. And also the decision about the removal of Kyiv Metropolitan Archdiocese had not been made on Patriarch’s own — he was not an independent political figure at that time and lived under the rule of the Ottoman Empire in Constantinople. True decision had been made at the Sultan’s Court.

Thus a long period of Ukrainian Orthodox Church ruled by Moscow had begun.

In reality, the Moscow Patriarchs had not got a chance to give directions to their subordinates. Newly established Russian Empire had canceled Patriarch’s rank and had created a special governing body — Synod, or the Holy Synod, to rule the church. Peter I had appointed a former Dragoon regiment's commander as his special representative (chief procurator) to the Synod. In XIX century the Synod's chief procurators had become true heads and commanders of the Russian Church.

And once again the history had developed in an unexpected way. In XVIII century the Orthodox Church of Russian Empire was under the control of native Ukrainians. Having been educated at The Kyiv-Mohyla Academy they knew classic languages and did not have any connections among Moscow’s nobles.

The Kyiv-Mohyla Academy alumnus Symeon Polotsky had established the first educational institution in Russia — Moscow Theological Academy. Ukrainian born priests were the heads of Russian dioceses and the presidents of the Synod. They did colonize and baptize the indigenous peoples of Siberia. Ukrainians had ruled the church in Russia up to the beginning of XIX century.

This was the situation when, on the one hand, Ukrainians were among the higher hierarchs serving the Empire, and, on the other hand, Kyiv Metropolitan Archdiocese had ceased to exist and had dissolved in the Russian Church. In this state, the Ukrainian Orthodox church did remain until the revolution of
