. As for Shanghai, they have an insane amount of DPS talent that should be able to cover a wide variety of hero pool permutations.

Ocal: We have 5 teams we haven't seen yet: Chengdu, Hangzhou, Guangzhou, Shanghai and Seoul. How will they adapt with hero pools? I'm with Emily on Shanghai, 0-42 is a past memory now, and might even be more distant once we see this wealth of DPS talent in play with hero pools in effect. We might see one of the best team turnarounds season to season in the history of anything competitive. From 42 straight losses to competing for a playoff spot and even a championship is pretty remarkable, even if Overwatch League (and esports in general) often move at a blistering pace. I'm also keeping an eye on Seoul, and seeing how the season 1 champs Profit, Gesture and BDosin adapt. So much has changed since they won their chip with London.

Wolf: My heart here lies with Seoul. I am fascinated by their roster changes made in the offseason and their ability to recruit many of the high-profile South Korean Overwatch players. Whether or not that combo of players will mesh well is unclear. On paper, this team should be one of the best teams in the Overwatch League. They're loaded with talent and while I've bet big on them before -- and sorely regretted it -- I think this may be the season it could pay off.

Are hero pools a boon or hindrance to the game?

Rand: The instant reaction to hero pools seems to be that they're generally good for the league and spectators enjoy them, but a nightmare for players and coaches (especially coaches).

For me, I'm always going to be someone who likes to watch things evolve without interference. While Week 5's games were undeniably exciting due to the bans, I would have loved to see another week or two before being subjected to the next set of hero pools rather than briefly seeing what teams came up with for a week, snapping our fingers, and moving on with different bans.

I want to give an additional shoutout to the Overwatch League coaches who are all working tirelessly to try and prepare these teams. One thing that always occurs whenever we have drastic meta upheaval in any esport or simply just international events where teams with highly-varied playstyles meet, is a push-pull between how much you prepare your team internally and how much you outwardly look at what other teams' playstyles are. I've generally been a
