was Gainey's pro scouting staff, run by Pierre Gauthier, who told Gainey that Laraque would be an excellent addition to the team.

This despite the fact that half the league knew he didn't want to fight anymore and that he had a chronically bad back. Pierre Gauthier is the same guy who told Gainey that Gill and Mara and Spacek would be excellent additions to the team. The same guy who told him Streit was a 1-year wonder and that Tanguay was worth a first round pick.

Yes, you guessed it, the Habs have terrible pro scouting but that is the topic for another blog. Suffice it to say that Gainey is the one who assembled his executive team and he must ultimately be held accountable for their shortcomings. If this team continues to slide and misses the playoffs, Gainey will have to pay the piper at season's end. Of that much, I am sure.

Remember to check Habs Addict daily for your Habs news!

http://links.HabsAddict.com/ - Habs Addict Daily Links

http://www.HabsAddict.com – Habs Addict blog
http://www.facebook.com/pages/Habs-Addict/293450486615 - Facebook
http://twitter.com/HabsAddict - Habs Addict on Twitter• 04-MAY-2015

adidas Football Gamedayplus: Episode 13

In this week's adidas Gamedayplus Real Madrid legends David Beckham and Iker Casillas talk about their careers and what it takes to be football superstars. We also talk to Alvaro Morata ahead of Juventus FC's semi-final against Real Madrid C.F. and meet the team behind the adidas miCoach Smartball.

Beckham talks to us from behind the scenes with adidas Originals about the sacrifice and dedication needed to make it to the very top of the game, and gives some top tips for aspiring footballers.

Real Madrid goalkeeper and captain Casillas takes us on a tour of the museum at the Santiago Bernabeu. Surrounded by trophies he won, he tells us about his development at the club and his hopes for this season's UEFA Champions League.

Roman Kemp is in Turin to talk to Morata about his new life in the city following his move from Madrid. The UEFA Champions League winner discusses his return to Madrid with Juventus for the semi-finals and what it was like to be part of the team that won 'La Decima' last season
