Uppsala curve began by falling in the 1720s. Since then, however, it has followed the Stockholm curve quite closely, but at a generally lower level (about 1 degree lower). During the 18th century, the annual average temperature in Stockholm fluctuated around 6 degrees C. There was an ongoing temperature rise in the long run, but the temperature was relatively stable from 1750 to 1870, and again from the 1940s to the 1990s. The long-term temperature rise appears to have taken place between these two periods of more stable conditions. Around 1990, the annual average temperature had risen to near 7.7 degrees C. The temperature rise can thus be estimated to more than 1.5 degrees C.

The measured temperature curves, however, are not the whole truth about the local temperature development in Stockholm. Temperature measurements were made on a hill called Observatoriekullen (Observatory Hill), which at the beginning of the measurement period was located outside the built-up city. Over time, the site has been influenced by the urban environment when the city expanded. The curves must therefore be calibrated for this change (Moberg, 1992, 1996 (calibration through recalculation of data series compensating for changes in the locations of instruments and observation times, and by comparisons with rural measurements near Stockholm)). When that is done, the result is remarkable, especially if one sees it from the global warming perspective. In this perspective, the long-term temperature rise in Stockholm between approximately 1750 to 1990 is almost completely eliminated. Converted in this way, the average temperature is quite stable from the 18th century to the late 20th century. Not until about 1990 did the 20th century temperature once again reach up to 18th-century levels. The result of temperature development from the mid-18th century to the late 20th century is fairly modest. The calibrated temperature curve from Stockholm seems, therefore, not to give a strong support to the theory of global warming.

But the conclusion that has been drawn by the apparent differences between the measured and the calibrated curves on the contrary gives an important support to the current explanation of global warming. The difference is mainly explained by the “urban heat effect” that occurred when the city of Stockholm began to expand geographically in the late 19th century. The temperature data of Stockholm were originally gathered within the rural surroundings outside the city itself. During the latter half of the
