ela Copeland, a career coach and founder of Copeland Coaching, can be reached at copelandcoach3, 2017

SPaMCAST 452 features our essay on personal process improvement.  We are responsible for our own path in life. Stepping back and reviewing where we are today and where we want to be tomorrow is a form of a retrospective.  Just like any other retrospective, the goal is to change the trajectory of the path you are on....Monash University, Melbourne

Monash University, Melbourne

Victoria, Australia | Public

Located in Melbourne, Australia, Monash University is a public research university, founded in the year 1958. It is one of the oldest universities in Melbourne and is part of some of the most influential groups, like ASAIHL, Group of Eight and M8 Alliance.
The teaching of the university is among the top 20%, international outlook in the top 10%, research in top 10% and industry income in top 20% when compared with universities across the globe. The university enrolls more than 45,000 undergraduates and around 18,000 graduates every year. It has the most number of applicants in the entire state of Victoria in Australia.

A$30,312

Average Living Expenses (Bachelors)

A$30,312

Average Living Expenses (Masters)

Qs ranking

Times New ranking

A$100

Application Fee

Select School

No courses found! Try other school

The main campus of the university is located in Clayton, Victoria. Other Australian campuses of the university are Caulfield, Alfred, Parkville, Peninsula and Berwick. The university also has a Campus in Italy, South Africa, Malaysia, China and India.
The Clayton campus of the university is the largest among all the campuses of the university and is around 20km from the Melbourne City Center. The campus has an urban setting and you will find a large number of restaurants, cafe, pubs, shopping centers, banks, etc. within walking distance.
The university also has inter-campus shuttle bus service which connects to the Frankston Railway Station and most of the other campuses of the university. If you are an undergraduate student, you can also get concession and discounts on your Myki cards while using a public transport. Other students can also apply for a 10% concession on their Myki passes through the Commuter Club of the university.

The Clayton campus of the university is spread across 1.1km and has its own
