Rosamund in London and promised that she will answer Mattthew when she returns to Downton. Rosamund tells Mary that she shouldn't accept Matthew now and she should wait to see whether the baby is a boy. Violet says she would accept Matthew now and not wait for the baby to be born. Mary still hesitates. Matthew assumes it is only because of her worry that Cora will have a son and supersede Matthew as the heir. Mary is actually hesitant because she feels that she must reveal the secret of her and Kemal Pamuk to Matthew.

At the same time, Violet is trying to find a replacement for her lady's maid Simmons and requests Cora's assistance. Sarah O'Brien misinterprets that Cora is looking to replace her and grows bitter and resentful. While Cora is bathing, Sarah slides a wet bar of soap next to the bath. Sarah, realizing that this is too evil and has second thoughts, but as she is about to stop Cora, Cora slips on the floor. The fall caused a miscarriage. Robert, in tears, tells Bates that he learned from Dr. Clarkson that the baby would have been a son. Cora is still recuperating when news arrives at that Britain has declared war on Germany on August 4, 1914. Sarah's guilt causes her to be completely loyal and protective of Cora.

Had the baby been born, he would have become Viscount Downton at birth, and the heir apparent to the Earldom of Grantham, superseding his father's heir presumptive Matthew Crawley.

Series TwoEdit

Matthew and Lavinia's engagementEdit

Cora is all into the war effort at the beginning of Series Two, as she is hosting a concert benifiting the men at the front. When Isobel comes forth with the news that Matthew has moved on from Mary and gotten engaged to a Miss Lavinia Swire, she is not happy   she had hoped Mary and Matthew could work it out   but tries to see the bright side in it. The only problem is, she points out, that Matthew and Mary are both coming to Downton the same day (he has his leave and wants to bring Lavinia to Downton to introduce her to the Crawleys; she has been staying in London and is coming back) they might meet on the train. Isobel helpfully informs them that they won't meet on the train, as Matthew and Lavinia are driving down in
