that Serge Grigorievitch received his higher education, and where he graduated as an agricultural engineer from the Grignon University (École nationale supérieure d'Agronomie de Grignon) in Paris. After this, Serge moved to the United States of America.

Princess Lubov Alexeievna Obolenskaya was born in 1912, also in Moscow, Russia.

 Obolensky is the name of a princely Russian family, descended from the Rurik Dynasty.  Their name 
 is said to derive from the town of Obolensk in the Upper Oka Principalities along the Oka River, 
 not far from Moscow.  

Just as did the Troubetzkoys, so the Obolenskys fled from the face of certain death after the Bolshevik Revolution, and they settled first in Paris, France. Largely because of this mass migration, the 1920s and 1930s came to be considered the silver age of Russian literature. Paris seethed with intellectual, cultural and religious genius. Luba was forever influenced by Father Grigorii Spassky, and she developed a deep devotion to the Orthodox Church. At 16 years of age she wrote in her diary :

 November 16, 1928.  
 Today after school, I prepared my religious homework and took the metro by myself to the theological 
 Institute.  Metropolitan Evlogy and Grand Duchess Maria Pavlovna cross-examined me.  After supper we went to 
 ROY [Russian Orthodox Youth] and sang with Kedroff.  There was a lecture about Chekhov, followed by dancing 
 and tea.  

At the end of the 1920s, Luba moved with her family to live in New York City, in the USA.

Marriage in the USA

In February, 1933, Prince Serge Grigorievitch Troubetzkoy married Princess Lubov Alexeiëvna Obolenskaya in New York City, where the young couple soon settled. Their wedding was a grand social event in New York society, and it received a great deal of coverage by the social media. Both their families were related, and they kept close ties during their emigration from Russia, following the Bolshevik takeover, as they moved around the European continent and America (several or many moves characterised of the lives of many who were forced by the revolution to emigrate). Serge even claimed to have been present at his
