Rose, the Empire was severely weakened, resulting in the Great Orenian Exodus to the distant lands of Aeldin around the year of 1415. A coalition of Dwarves, Elves, Uruks and other lesser races were able to seize the advantage and launch an invasion of the crumbling First Empire, causing its capitulation and the ascension of the Carrion dynasty, whose leadership over Orenian affairs would later be referred to as the Second Empire.

Those who left in exile appeared to stray from the time continuum of the rest of Oren, and would later return only just in time to make way into the Fringe. The return of the Exodus is largely seen as a demise in the history of the Carrions, as they were unseated from their autocracy over Oren and returned to dominion over only the Raevir people and a few others.

Since arrival in the Fringe, the mistakes of the previous regimes have been rectified, with Peter Chivay, the former King of Kaedrin launching a series of bold political maneuvers and, with the assistance of the Church of the One True Faith, proclaiming Himself the Emperor of the Imperium of Oren - known now as the Third Empire.The Eberswalde Hoard: what exactly is it?

It apparently caused a diplomatic stir between Russia and Germany on Friday, but what exactly is the Eberswalde Hoard?

Germany's chancellor, Angela Merkel, was expected to travel to St Petersburg on Friday evening to open the new Bronze Age, Europe without borders exhibition alongside Russian president, Vladimir Putin.

Instead, however, an unsavoury row erupted during the day, resulting in the Russian government reportedly inititially cancelling the event and then announcing it would actually go ahead. So what's causing all the fuss?

There were suggestions that Mrs Merkel had planned to make some uncomfortable remarks about the Eberswalde Hoard, a highly valued collection of artefacts that were discovered during an excavation north-east of Berlin in 1913.

During the Second World War, Soviet troops took the artefacts from a museum in Berlin and transported them to Moscow as war booty.

The artefacts were discovered in 2004 in a secret depot within Moscow’s Pushkin Museum. In short, Germany now wants them back, along with an unknown amount of other art work.

The Eberswalde Hoard is believed to be dated to either the 11th or 10th century BC and consists of 81 gold objects from the Bronze Age
