my music via email and he was very enthusiastic. We worked at a distance, like ping-pong. I met him [in real life] only one week ago—it was very cool. It was funny. It was like he was an old friend. I'm very interested in working with a lot of different people from different universes. When I was a teenager, I was listening to a lot of hip-hop. It was like a dream to make this track. Maybe I'll try it again later.

REESE: How did writing the record in Berlin change your perspective?

CASTEX: It's funny, because I don't think the album sounds at all like Berlin electronic music. But for me, it's really my German album. If I made the album in Paris, or in another city, it would be a completely different record. It wasn't influenced by the music, but by the city. There is more space, it's more quiet—totally different from Paris. Paris is more stressful. I think all these elements give color to the record.

REESE: What other music were you listening to when recorded the album?

CASTEX: For a long time—three months in the studio—I wasn't listening to anything at all. I tried to isolate myself from the rest of the world. When I'm not working on music, I listen to music all the time, even when I don't want to: getting a drink with friends, when I'm on the Internet... So there are certain influences indirectly. The thing to do is try to forget everything and make a work of introspection.

REESE: Are there differences between playing to an audience in Paris versus one in Berlin?

CASTEX: There are some differences. In Paris, for example, in clubs and at concerts people are a little bit more aggressive. You can feel that they had a big week of work, and it's the weekend they have to be like, "Aaaahhhh!" [waves hands]. In Berlin the parties are longer—a club like Berghain opens Friday and closes Monday. People are more relaxed, even if the music is really strong.

REESE: What do you want to make your audience feel at a live show?

CASTEX: Playing live is very intense. It's a big contrast to the time in the studio. You're with a lot of people and there is so much energy. People give me energy and I give energy to people, it's like a collaboration. My music is different when there are a lot
