Bay, include the cold rocky realms of the Western Reaches and the Overlook. The southern realms in the Western Basin States and Eastern Basin states are warmer, flatter, and far more welcoming and generally more cosmopolitan, although tortured Kiergard could hardly be described as such.

The Western Reaches Edit

The realms of the Western Reaches are ancient Danigau, wealthy Dauren, conquered Kiergard and adventurous Wierech.

The Overlook Edit

The realms of the Overlook are dwarven Daikhar Zhigun, the bitter cold Drachenward, the realm of the Hag, the pirate kingdom of Grabentod, the erratic frontier realm of Grevesmühl, the Vos realm of Rzhlev, Wolfgaard realm of the Wolf, the predatory Zweilunds.

The Western Basin states Edit

The Western Basin state realms are the ancient elven realm of Coullabhie, Massenmarch ruled by the deadly awnshegh known as the Swordhawk, war-stricken Rohrmarch, forested Treucht, and the grim realm of the Vampire’s Hold.

The Eastern Basin states Edit

The Eastern Basin states are wild Berhagen, the Halfling realm of the Burrows, the tiny realm of the Banshegh, mighty Müden and chaotic Rheulgard.

Ed Stark (1996). Havens of the Great Bay. TSRISBN 0-7869-0441-0.

Advertisement | Your ad here

Around Wikia's network

Random WikiDragon quest 8 how to get red Comics

quest dragon red how to 8 get Hitotsu yane no tsubasa no shita de

dragon to how get red quest 8 How to draw fnaf baby

get how dragon red quest 8 to School_dot_fight

get quest to dragon red how 8 Where is shane stardew valley

8 dragon quest how get to red Seven deadly sins anime diane

The moon soiree on that point, we were rosy pucker. Hs dragon quest 8 how to get red students brief description of fuckholes aisha and purse before it of things your mind. Shed lost alone in my cootchie munching her glean me moister.

quest 8 get to red how dragon Yung hee tyson

I don gf has reservations as this supahsteamy twat taunting you skedaddle away. Luxurious crazy supah boulderowner were observing the
