of soldiers. Putin has deterred armed mercenary groups from storming administrative buildings in Moscow.

Putin in an emergency broadcast speech said an armed mutiny by Wagner mercenaries was a “stab in the back” and that the group’s chief Yevgeny Prigozhin had betrayed Russia, as he vowed to punish the traitors.

Putin also signed a law permitting 30-day detentions for breaking martial law in places where is has been imposed.

Who is this Wagner Group?

Wagner Group headed by Yevgeny Prigozhin is a private military company with up to 50,000 troops and are the ones allegedly staging a coup in Russia against Putin.

Prigozhin took control of Russia’s southern military command headquarters in Rostov, a city with one million residents and they threated to further march to Moscow. Some fake rumors spread about Russian special forces and others joining Prigozhin against Putin.

Putin remains in control of Russia and nobody can do anything about it. When the dust has settled we expect Prigozhin to be severely punished. An arrest warrant has already been issued by Russian authorities for Prigozhin and he’s being charged with mutiny.

How did this all start?

During the course of the Ukraine War, there has been growing conflict between the Russian Ministry of Defense and the Wagner Group which has also been fighting in Ukraine.

Prigozhin, once a close advisor of Putin says he is demanding retribution following what he claims to be a catastrophic loss of his forces in a series of strikes by the Russian military targeting his Wagner troops on Friday.

The Russian military disputed the occurrence of such strikes, and there are no independent verification of his claims. If such a strike did happen it would be coming from Ukraine and not the Russian military.

Keep in mind that Prigozhin is a private mercenary and mercenaries only need money to keep them under control. It is possible that Prigozhin was offered a bribe by the CIA in a last minute attempt to have a regime change in Russia.

As a private military group, the Wagner group operates outside the purview of the Russian military and is said to report directly to Russia’s President.

How did Zelensky and Ukraine respond?

Zelensky responded by saying, “The man from the Kremlin is obviously very afraid and is probably hiding somewhere, not showing his face. I’m sure he’s not in Moscow anymore.”

Zelensky started a fake rumor about Putin going into hiding and leaving Moscow. This was
