playing guitar and singing together, followed by a kiss.
The film is framed by performance of the speech given by Murrow to the Radio and Television News Directors Association in 1958.
Raine then carves a swastika into Landa's forehead, proclaiming that 'this just might be my masterpiece'.
Title cards shown just before the end credits reveal that Hosenfeld died in 1952 in a Soviet KGB prisoner-of-war camp, but was posthumously honored for saving Szpilman's life.
Meanwhile, Carl's house is shown to have landed on the cliff beside Paradise Falls.
The battle peaks when a band of river gypsies camp on the village outskirts and Vianne finds a strong, mutual sexual attraction with the Manush Romani (Gypsy) Roux.
Last sentence from plot summaryBest Picture nomineeYear
He tells the driver, 'Give me $50 worth. Just drive.'
Hoffman portrays [title character]'s conflict between personal literary ambitions and trying to maintain his role as a confidant to Perry, one of the two condemned killers.
Scrap's narration is revealed to be a letter to Dunn's daughter, Katy, informing her of her father's true character.
In Mexico, Rodriguez watches as children play baseball at night in their new stadium.
The scene then shifts over the next hundred years, giving a view of modern New York with the graves of Bill Cutting and Priest Vallon gradually overgrown by bushes and weeds.
The epilogue tells the audience that Nixon wrote a biography about himself, but never escaped controversy, until his death in 1994.
The film ends with Miles traveling back to Santa Ynez Valley and knocking on Maya's door.
Frodo accepts Sam's presence as together they continue their journey through the hills of Emyn Muil.
The movie provides a portrait of Charles’ musical genius as he overcomes drug addiction while transforming into one of his country’s most beloved performers.
The title refers to the rear compartment of a lobster trap known as the 'bedroom' and the fact that it can only hold up to two lobsters before they begin to turn on each other.
The film ends with a postscript noting that 9 of the 11 men targeted by Mossad were assassinated. Salameh was killed in 1979.
The film ends with Michael getting back together with his daughter Julia at Hanna's grave and beginning to tell her his story.
The end credits include a dedication to director John Lee Hancock's father, a football player and coach
